# Frp-vs-Shap
On the comparison between feature relevancy, as measured by AXp and CXp, and SHAP scores 
(computed using Lundberg's SHAP tool or Barcelo's algorithms) and LIME scores..

## Installation

1. Make sure you have [Python 3.7](https://www.python.org/downloads/) installed.
2. Run `pip install -r requirements.txt` to install the project dependencies.

## Description

1. The `datasets` folder contains all the datasets used in the paper.
2. The `examples` folder contains all the compiled d-DNNF circuits.
3. The `samples` folder contains all the points in the feature space.
4. The folders `shap_scores` and `lime_scores` contain all the SHAP scores and LIME scores for all points, respectively.
5. The `xddnnf` folder contains the explainer for d-DNNF circuits.
6. The `getAccuracy.py` script assesses the accuracy of d-DNNF circuits.
7. The `all_points.py` script generates all the points in the feature space.
8. The `useSHAP.py` script invokes Lundberg's SHAP tool to compute SHAP scores.
9. The `useLIME.py` script invokes LIME tool to compute LIME scores.
10. The `SHAPscore.py` script implements the algorithms for computing exact SHAP scores proposed by Barcelo.
11. The `exactSHAPscore.py` script computes the exact SHAP scores for all the points in the datasets.
12. The `shapCompareRank.py` script compares and plots the feature importance ranks generated by Lundberg's SHAP scores and Barcelo's exact SHAP scores. 
13. The scripts `shapPlotDisorder.py` and `limePlotDisorder.py` plot SHAP/LIME scores for instances where irrelevant features have greater (in absolute value) SHAP scores than relevant features.
14. The scripts `shapIrrRel.py` and `limeIrrRel.py` plot the number of instances where irrelevant features have greater (in absolute value) SHAP/LIME scores than relevant features. Furthermore, they display the maximal SHAP/LIME scores of irrelevant features and the minimal SHAP/LIME scores of relevant features.

## Citation
```
@article{huang2023inadequacy,
  title={The Inadequacy of Shapley Values for Explainability},
  author={Huang, Xuanxiang and Marques-Silva, Joao},
  journal={arXiv preprint arXiv:2302.08160},
  year={2023}
}
```